Intel's Flagship 14900 K isn't a literal
Dragon Shore but it's very powerful and
has a tendency to burn up things it
comes in contact with so if you're
anything like me you are very excited
about amd's new flagship Zen 5
processors the ryzen
9900x and
950x featuring 12 and 16 of their Zen 5
cores respectively managing performance
that is on par or even better than the
14900 k at a similar price and with as
much as 100 wats less power consumption
we've got a full video on the six and
the eight core variants over on the
lonus tech tips channel that goes into
things in a little bit more detail but
long story short we've got the same
support for PCI Express Gen 5 ddr5
memory and thanks to a combination of
architectural improvements and a move to
tsmc's 4 nanometer process for the
compute dies AMD is offering an
outstanding upgrade in both performance
and power consumption and it drops into
the same am5 socket that we've come to
know and love that they have confirmed
will continue to be supported into 2027
and maybe even Beyond in terms of what's
included in the Box you get a cute
little AMD ryzen 9 sticker you get a
cute little AMD ryen am5 processor with
the same little
with the same little thermal paste
retention style integrated heat spreader
on the top these things are almost
impossible to clean an LGA interface on
the back and uh that is about it no heat
sink no accessories to speak of now that
we've got what's the same out of the way
then let's talk about what's different
with the 9900x and the
950x of course the core counts are
different but there's more to consider
than just the sheer number of cores both
of these chips have two ccds or core
complex dieses under the IHS that means
that there are some cases where a single
or lightly threaded workload like say
for example a game might end up having
functions running across both of these
dies for that reason AMD has actually
implemented a core parking feature like
we saw in the ryzen 7000 x3d chips that
will force those programs to run on just
one of the dieses so you can avoid
situations where a die over here is
calling for data from the cache over
here which can lead to a performance hit
another big difference is that unlike
the chips we've seen so far which are
rated for 65 Watts but assuming adequate
cooling will actually call for as much
as 88 Watts from the socket these aren't
even rated for 88 the 9900x is rated for
what is it 120 and then for the 950x
it's rated at 1 70 and we found that in
the real world they go closer to 160
watts and 200 Watts respectively now
with that said that's still considerably
lower than what we see from Intel's
14900 K and 14900 KS both in its default
operating mode and in its Unleashed mode
which allows it to draw as much power as
it wants and can put it well north of
300 watts the only big difference left
now is performance but before we look at
that how about we look at this message
from our sponsor MSI msi's back to
school sale is live right now and you
can save big on budget gaming laptops
high-end gaming laptops AI capable
machines gaming handhelds and more if
you're looking for a new laptop maybe
check out their cyborg 14 so you can you
know sneak in a few gaming sessions in
between your studies head over to the
link in the video description and check
out msi's back to school sale today AMD
made it clear in their launch
presentation that while these chips are
absolutely capable of gaming they're not
really intended to go head-to-head
against their best gaming chips their
x3d lineup which we've seen in both the
5000 series and 7,000 series but not
here yet and we can see that this holds
true mostly in our gaming tests which we
ran at 1080P and mostly at low settings
in order to eliminate GPU bottlenecks
and focus the bottleneck in our games
directly on the CPU
so we definitely saw situations where a
last generation but x3d chip comes out
ahead but also ran into situations like
rocket League where these new ryzen 9000
flagships end up kind of crushing the
competition so it's going to be a mixed
bag and what I will say now is that if
you gaming is your primary focus and
nothing else really matters you may be
better off just putting a pin in this
one and waiting for the inevitable 9,000
Series x3d refresh if you want to make
sure that you're absolutely getting The
Best of Both Worlds with that said that
world is going to cost you something
when it comes to productivity where
these chips really shine between their
higher power limits compared to the six
and the 8 core variants not to mention
they're huge architectural improvements
compared to 7,000 series they top the
charts pretty much across the board
whether we're looking at video encoding
file compression and decompression 3D
rendering video editing these things do
it all and the only way that Intel is
able to hang with them is if we take
their 14900 K and untether it allowing
it to draw as much power as it wants for
as long as it
wants it's pretty incredible what AMD
has accomplished here especially if you
care about the efficiency of your
workstation now something you guys are
probably wondering is hey what happens
if you take these and give them the same
treatment allowing them to draw as much
power as they could possibly
want and unfortunately the answer is not
that much in both cases we saw an
improvement of about 3 to 5% with power
consumption going up by about 60 watts
in both cases so unlike the 9700x where
enabling PBO allowed it to perform
notably better it looks like AMD has
these chips tuned pretty well into to
their Peak Performance for power
consumption range and it's worth noting
that if you unlock these chips using PBO
it can affect your ability to claim
warranty coverage should anything go
wrong on them the good news is even if
you do decide to enable PBO these chips
don't run that hot both were in the 60s
running on our triple fan aiio cooler
without PBO and ended up in the 80s with
PBO so that is significantly cooler than
that Inferno that is in s's 14900
k/k the last thing to talk about is
pricing and here I don't think AMD has
gone super aggressive but what they have
done is they've positioned these chips
really well the 950x comes in at around
the same street price as the 14900 K and
when you consider the overall package
here both in terms of performance and
efficiency I think it's kind of a
no-brainer over Intel's Flagship with
that said the ks variant isn't the one
most people are buying it is only a
percent or two faster than the regular K
and costs $100 more so realistically
that's what most customers are going to
be comparing these against and that's
where the 9900x comes in it actually
undercuts the 14900 k a little bit and
it does give up a little bit in terms of
some heavily multi-threaded workloads
but still holds its own extremely well
and outperforms the 14900 K when it
comes to single-threaded applications
which is a lot of what most people are
going to be doing so in summary yeah it
might not be the blow the doors off 7000
series Improvement that some people
might have liked to see but it's a solid
offering and is a drop in replacement on
that am5 socket which is a boon for
anyone who wants to upgrade their system
slowly over time cuz that's the thing
guys you can look at 9,000 Series and go
yeah I don't want to spend the money
today but hey aren't you going to be
glad to have the option when 10,000
series comes out and these start showing
up on the second hand Market Market got
to love it and you got to love being
subscribed to Short Circuit what you're
not subscribed yet well try it you'll
love it